Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to learn about something we can add to our block type called an attribute,
I think the easiest way to really understand what an attribute is, is to begin by trying to make our
block type interactive.
Let me explain.
So right now, this is what our block type currently looks like on the post at its screen, you cannot
click and begin typing.
It's just a hard coded paragraph in a hard coded heading level three.
So instead of that, what we really want is a text input field where the user can actually click and
then begin typing.
Not only that, we want to be sure that we save and store the value that they enter.
So throughout this video lesson, we're going to learn how attributes make this possible.
Without further ado, let's jump into the code and change what we're outputting here.
So within your source folder, jump in to the index JS file.
Right now, we're interested in the JSC within our edit function.
And just for a hypothetical example, let's imagine we want to input text fields, so let's get rid
of the paragraph and heading level for let's have one input textfield.
I'll say placeholder equals sky color below that.
Let's have a second input and it can be so placeholder for grass color.
Just a quick note about X elements must either have a matching closing tag or a self-closing tag like
this.
So notice at the end of our input there's a forward slash to make this a self-closing element.
If you got rid of that, this is no longer valid JS X, so just keep that in mind.
Every element needs to be closed in one way or another.
Anyways, let's imagine we have these two input fields, sky color and grass color.
And then in terms of the HTML that we would actually want to save into the database and output on the
front end of our website to the general public.
Well, let's imagine we just want a paragraph of text so we no longer need the wrapper if we just have
a single element.
So just to have a single P tag and inside it, let's say today the sky is and then it would be blank,
whatever color the user types into this field and the grass is another blank, whatever the user types
in to the second field.
So back to the entire point of this lesson, what is an attribute?
Well, perhaps it's already starting to make sense.
Essentially, we just need a way to bridge the gap between our admin ed code and our saved public output
code.
Right.
We need a way to fill in these blank values.
So here's what we do.
Let's scroll up.
So remember when we registered our blacktip, we gave it a configuration object and it has these different
properties of title icon category.
Edit save.
Well, let's just give it another property.
The ordering doesn't matter, but maybe let's just add it after categories right here on dropdown.
The new property name is attributes Colon and then we give it an object.
Be sure to end this line with a comma.
OK, inside this object you can drop down if you want to.
I'm going to add we just get to make up property names that will be our blocks attributes.
So I'm going to make up a name called Sky Color Colon.
Let's give it an object that describes this attribute.
So I'm going to say that type is a string.
You could also set this to be an array or a number or a boolean.
But for now, let's just go with a string of text, OK?
And there are other properties that you can use to describe your attribute.
But for now, this is all we need.
The type attribute is the only required property at the end of this line.
Let's add a comma and then let's just do the same thing for grass color.
So we'll create a property, grass color, colon, curly brackets.
It has a type as well of string.
Cool.
So now we have this common ground that both the edit and save function can work with.
From this point, we need to start thinking about how the react framework actually works.
In other words, because we're not dealing with a traditional HTML form that fires on submit, we're
instead working with real time JavaScript.
What I mean by this is in terms of the event that we're going to listen for, we're not interested in
any form being submitted.
Instead, we're interested in each one of these inputs having their value changed right after every
keystroke.
As the user is typing into this field, we want to update the value of that property in our attribute.
So if the user types in the word blue that.
Four characters, we would update the value of our sky color attribute four times after each keystroke.
So here's how we do that on this first field.
Let me hide the sidebar so we have more space.
We give it an attribute of en change equals and then we don't say quotes instead in JS X, when you
want to do something dynamic, it's a pair of curly brackets.
In this case, since it's on change, we want to give it a function and then the REACT framework will
call our function every single time the value of this field changes.
Now, in the real world, I would probably just spell out in S6 Arrow function or an anonymous function
right inside these curly brackets.
But in terms of actually learning and having the code be easily readable, why don't we create a separate
function?
So do this with me still inside our edit function, but just above the word return here.
Let's add a new line and let's make up a function name, let's say function.
You could call it anything, but I'm going to call it update sky color, parentheses, curly brackets.
Now that we have this function, that's what we would want to use for the on change.
So just say update sky color.
We don't need parentheses after the name because you and I are not trying to call the function right
here.
Right now.
We're just giving a reference to the function and then react, we'll call it at the appropriate time.
Now in terms of what we actually do inside the body of this function, this is where things get a bit
complex.
So if what we do in the next minute or two doesn't make perfect sense, that's OK.
That's to be expected.
React is definitely not the most intuitive framework in the world.
But here's what we're going to do in this function.
We need a way to update the attributes that WordPress is keeping track of.
Luckily for us, when WordPress calls our edit function, it's going to give it everything we need.
It's going to pass something into our function.
So on this top level edit function right here, we want to have a parameter.
You can name it anything, but the industry standard is to name it props short for properties.
So WordPress will pass this into our function and now we can use that inside our function.
So inside our update, sky color function.
Here's what we're going to do.
We're going to say props and we're going to look inside it for a WordPress function called Set Attributes
parentheses to actually call it inside the parentheses.
We give it an object that WordPress will sort of merge into the attributes object.
So in the curly brackets here, we would want to change the sky color attribute.
So Colan.
And then you just give it the value that you want to set it to.
So for example, blue only, we don't want to set a hard coded string of text here.
We want to pull in or use whatever the user has typed into this text field.
So this gets into the way that react and really just Web browsers in general work.
But essentially when an HTML element has an event listener, well, when it runs the function that you
told it to run, it's going to pass into it an argument that has all sorts of information about the
event that just happened.
So let me show you how we can pull in whatever the user is typed into the field right here within this
function.
Update sky color.
We want to be sure to include a parameter you can name it anything, but it's common practice to name
it E it's short for event.
Or you could actually just type in event.
And then instead of a hardcoded value of blue here, we would say event dot target, dot value.
So event contains all sorts of information about what just occurred.
We can look inside it for Target, which is the element that is firing the event, and then we can look
inside that for the actual value.
Let's go ahead and set up the same behavior for our second input field for grass color.
So on that second input element, let's say on change equals curly brackets.
We're going to make up a function name in just a minute.
Let's call it maybe update grass color.
Let's go create a function with that name.
You can actually just copy and paste and duplicate these three lines for the update sky color functions
or just paste that and change the name to update grass color.
The only difference is the attribute that we want to change.
So instead of sky color, this would be grass color.
OK, we just need to take care of one more thing before we save and test this out, and that is our
save function.
So in terms of what we would actually want to show the public, how do we fill in these blanks?
So instead of X here, this should pull in the sky color value and this the grass color value.
Well, luckily for us, when WordPress.
Actually calls or executes our function, just like the edit function above WordPress is going to pass
into it an argument.
So we want to receive that argument with a parameter here.
Again, remember, the industry standard name is props, OK?
And then we can just use that down here.
So instead of the X, what we would really want is curly brackets, right?
That's how you do something dynamic within X.
So we would just use the props and then look inside it for something called attributes and then look
inside that for the specific one we want, which is sky color.
And we would just do the same thing here.
So this would be grass color.
So curly brackets, props, dot attributes, dot grass color.
Let's save this file and test it out.
But let me remind you, you do need to have your workflow running that we set up in the previous lesson.
So in your command line, remember to open up your command line or terminal its control J on Windows
or command.
John Mac, we want to make sure that we have the WordPress scripts start TASC running.
So again, that's NPM Run start.
Cool, so that will perform a fresh build, we don't need to save the file again right now.
Let's go test it out in the browser.
Now, as soon as I refresh, we're going to see an error message here, and that's because the saved
value has changed.
So if we reload, don't be surprised when we see this block contains unexpected or invalid content.
Again, we will learn about why this error message exists and how to get around this problem in our
next lesson.
But for this lesson, let's just go ahead and delete this instance of the block and then go ahead and
insert a fresh new copy.
So, Adblock, are you paying attention for sky color?
Let's say blue for grass color, let's say green, and then let's go ahead and update or save our post
and then view it on the front end.
So if we scroll down, perfect today, the sky is blue and the grass is green.
So our front end is working perfectly.
However, if we go back to the edit screen and reload or refresh.
Oh, notice the actual values that we just entered are not actually showing up or pre populating the
inputs.
Well, don't worry, the data is still there in the database.
We'll actually look at the database in just a minute or two.
For now, though, we just need to tell our JavaScript to actually use those as the values here.
Let me show you what I mean.
So if we go back into our edit function for the edit property on these same inputs where we added the
on change attribute, we just need to add a value attribute.
So value equals curly brackets.
And then remember the props that WordPress is going to pass into our function.
We just leverage that here.
So its props dot attributes dot sky color and we'd want to do the same thing for the second input.
So you could just take this selected all copy that, paste it here and just change the attribute name
to grass color.
Let's give that a save.
And then if we refresh the admin screen, perfect.
It's pre populating with the real values, we can test this out.
So if we change the sky color to gray and click update or save, you can see if I refresh the front
end.
Yep.
That change is actually taking place.
And if we refresh the admin screen.
Yep.
It's loading from the database.
Speaking of the database, I think it's very important for you to see as early as possible how this
is being stored.
I'm referring to the user's values in the database.
So let's go look right now, if you're using the local app to run WordPress locally, just click on
the database tab and then click open, add mynor in your new browser tab on the left hand side, lets
go into the posts table.
Click select data.
Make sure you click the very last page of results, if you scroll down to the bottom click edit on the
very final post that you see and we're interested in this post content field.
So let me zoom in here.
OK, so we've got a standard WordPress paragraph.
If we scroll down, here is our custom block type.
So WP our plug ins.
Are you paying attention?
And now here's the interesting part.
WordPress is storing our attributes object right here in this HTML comment.
Right.
This is the beginning of an HTML comment.
This is the end.
So all of our dynamic data for this instance of the block just lives right here in the comment.
I'm always perfectly happy with this approach.
However, the official WordPress documentation does show you how to use something called source, which
lets your saved HTML string of text be your source of truth.
If you set things up like that.
WordPress doesn't even need to store the object of attributes in the comment.
It will just extract the values from the saved text.
Now, even though we're not going to use that approach in our real examples that we build out, I do
want you to be aware of it.
So let me show you how this would work.
So first of all, if we want the saved HTML to be our source of truth, we need to make sure that the
values are wrapped in unique elements that we can target.
Let me show you what I mean.
So back in our code, down in our save function, we would want to wrap this.
So this first one, sky color.
Let's wrap that in a span.
So opening span tag here you can see LVS code trying to close the spanton here.
We don't want that.
We would want the closing tag here.
And let's give it a unique class that we can target.
Now, in JSM, you don't just say class equals you say class name, uppercase N equals.
This is because class is a reserved word in JavaScript.
So it's always class name.
You can name it anything, but let's just call it sky color and then let's do the same thing for grass
colors.
I'm going to wrap this opening span tag here.
We don't want the closing one here.
We want it after this.
Let's give it a class name equals grass color.
OK, now check this out.
Back up in our attributes definition.
So up at the very top when we're using register block type, when we're describing sky color after type
string, let's add a comma.
We want another property and say that source should equal text comma.
We want another property called Selecter Colon and now you just give it a success.
Ask Selecter.
So just dot sky color because we gave that span element sky color as a class.
And in case you begin with a dot for a class selector, OK, and then do the same thing for grass color.
So give it another property comma source should be text in the selector is just a sixth like selector
of dot grass color.
If this doesn't make sense right now, I think it will in about 30 seconds from now when we see it in
the database.
And I can explain things, but let's go ahead and save our file and we will need to reinsert a new instance
back in the editor.
Because if we refresh because we changed the HTML structure of the saved content, it's no longer valid.
So just delete this block.
But let's insert a new instance of the block.
Are you paying attention?
Let's say the sky color is teal and the grass color is yellow.
Let's go ahead and update that.
And now let's go look at that in the database.
So in admin or you'll need to go back a page refresh and just make sure that you are indeed editing
the very last or final post notice.
There is no comment with those attributes.
Instead, it's just this HTML string of text.
So this still works perfectly in the admin area.
If I refresh the front end, it still works perfectly there.
The only difference is WordPress doesn't need to save a copy of our attributes in the comment.
Instead, we're using this string of text as our source of truth and we're extracting or pulling values
out of it.
Now, there's nothing wrong with this approach.
I'm sure it's the correct option for certain types of plug ins and block types.
But personally, in my opinion, I never use this approach will get into Y in the very next lesson.
But for now, I'm actually going to remove source and selector from my attributes definition because
I don't want my string of text to be my source of truth.
I want to store my data in the comment.
So I only showed you how to use source like this because I don't want to be dogmatic.
I don't want to totally force my opinions on you, but I am going to remove that for now.
So I'm going back to just having type as the only property for my attributes.
Just so we're on the same page, I'm going to save and then let you know that you will have to insert
a new copy, so if you refresh, you'll need to delete that old instant's insert a new one, let's say
blue and green click update.
Cool.
Now, trust me, right now, I know that there's a lot of different moving pieces involved and there's
plenty of room for confusion.
But I think in our very next lesson, we're going to tie up a lot of loose ends and connect the dots
between several different topics to give you a bit of a hint.
What if we don't want just a static string of text to be the result for our block type?
What if we want to do something truly dynamic, something that needs to happen?
Server side with HTTP.
That's what we're going to cover in the next video.
It should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.